+++
title = "How RainyDay, Turian and a new PlugX variant abuse DLL search order hijacking"
date = "2025-09-24T13:22:23.186380Z"
tags = ["security", "certification"]
description = "Talos discovered that a new PlugX variant’s features overlap with both the RainyDay and Turian backdoors"
canonicalURL = "https://blog.talosintelligence.com/how-rainyday-turian-and-a-new-plugx-variant-abuse-dll-search-order-hijacking/"
+++

How RainyDay, Turian and a new PlugX variant abuse DLL search order hijacking — summary and exam-relevant notes.

## Key Points
- Key insight 1
- Key insight 2
- Key insight 3

## Details
Cisco Talos has identified an ongoing campaign targeting the telecommunications and manufacturing sectors in Central and South Asian countries. Based on our analysis of collected evidence, we assess with medium confidence that this campaign can be attributed to Naikon , an active Chinese-speaking threat actor that has been operating since 2010. This assessment is based on analysis of the PlugX configuration format used during this campaign as well as the malware infection chain involved, which was very similar to their previous malware, RainyDay. During the investigation and hunting efforts for RainyDay backdoors, Talos uncovered two significant findings. First, we found that several instances of the Turian backdoor and newly identified variants of the PlugX backdoor were abusing the same legitimate Mobile Popup Application as RainyDay to load themselves into memory. Second, we observed that the three malware families leverage loaders which not only have a similar XOR decryption function but also use the same RC4 key to decrypt the encrypted payload. Although we did not observe any activity associated with RainyDay or Turian during this campaign, this finding enables us to make assessments regarding attribution. Naikon is a well-known Chinese-speaking cyber espionage group that has been active since at least 2010. This threat group has primarily targeted government, military, and civil organizations across Southeast Asia. Naikon employs a variety of backdoors, including Aira-body , Nebulae and RainyDay, along with numerous customized hacking tools to maintain persistence and exfiltrate data from victims' network environments. Notably, Symantec reported the group has been using the RainyDay backdoor to target telecom operators in several Asian countries as part of a prolonged espionage campaign, which they traced back to 2020. BackdoorDiplomacy is a threat group that has been active since at least 2017. The group has primarily targeted Ministries of Foreign Affairs and telecommunication companies across Africa, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. Their primary tool of choice is Turian , believed to be an upgraded version of Quarian . ESET has noted similarities in the network encryption methods of Turian and a backdoor known as Backdoor.Whitebird.1 . Bitdefender has suggested that Quarian, Turian and Whitebird may be different versions of the same backdoor. Bitdefender has also published a blog on attacks against telecommunication companies in the Middle East, which began in February 2022. Talos compares Naikon and BackdoorDiplomacy using the diamond model in Figure 1. While investigating the DLL search order hijacking abuse used in this campaign, Talos discovered that RainyDay, Turian and the PlugX variant all abused the same legitimate software to execute their malicious loaders. Although these malware families are seemingly operated by different threat groups ( Naikon and BackdoorDiplomacy), our analysis uncovered evidence suggesting a potential connection between them. First, there are consistent targeting patterns observed in campaigns Naikon and BackdoorDiplomacy conducted, with similar countries and industries affected by these campaigns, which could indicate a possible connection . Both primarily focus on telecommunications companies, with their most recent campaigns continuing this trend. In a recent campaign we observed, Naikon targeted a telecommunications company in Kazakhstan, which borders Uzbekistan — another country previously victimized by BackdoorDiplomacy . Prior reporting suggests that targeting of countries in this region aligns with historical BackdoorDiplomacy activity. Additionally, both Naikon and BackdoorDiplomacy have been observed targeting South Asian countries. Furthermore, the malware loaders and shellcode structures used by both groups show significant similarities, and Talos has observed the use of the same RC4 keys, as well as the XOR-RC4-RtlDecompressBuffer algorithm, for decrypting malware payloads across RainyDay (Naikon), PlugX (Naikon) and Turian (BackdoorDiplomacy). These overlaps will be explored further in the next section. Talos created a timeline of intrusion activity associated with these three malware families (Figure 2) by analyzing data from: While we cannot conclude that there is a clear connection between Naikon and BackdoorDiplomacy, there are significant overlapping aspects — such as the choice of targets, encryption/decryption payload methods, encryption key reuse and use of tools supported by the same vendor. These similarities suggest a medium confidence link to a Chinese-speaking actor in this campaign. RainyDay, Turian and the new variant of PlugX identified in this campaign are all executed via DLL search order hijacking . Although there are differences among the three pieces of malware, the behavior of the loaders themselves is similar. The loaders for RainyDay, PlugX and Turian, which are loaded by abusing legitimate executables, read encrypted shellcode files located in the same directory as the executables and decrypt the data to execute their respective malware. The decrypted RainyDay and PlugX payloads are unpacked into memory and inject code into the calling process to execute the malware. Turian injects into a new legitimate process (either wabmig.exe or explorer.exe) to execute the malware. After execution, it loads the Config data, which defines the command and control (C2) destination and an INI file containing an “AntiVir” section. These three loaders are designed to read, decrypt and execute the encrypted shellcode for their respective malware from the Initial directory. Let's examine the decryption routines for the RainyDay, PlugX and Turian loaders. The three loaders share a significant amount of common code. First, they use the GetModuleFileNameA API to obtain the full path of the executable. Then, they read data from the Initial directory using hardcoded filenames within the malware. The initial RainyDay loader Talos observed in 2016 did not encrypt the data. However, in subsequent malware samples, each loader includes a decryption routine. As illustrated in Figures 6 – 8, the RainyDay loader decrypts data from “rdmin.src”, the PlugX loader from “Mcsitesdvisor.afx” and the Turian loader from “winslivation.dat”, each using XOR encryption. The decrypted shellcode is then unpacked in memory and executed using CALL or JMP instructions. The format of the shellcode each of the three malware loaders decrypts is th



{{< aff "training_partner" "Recommended course" >}}

{{< aff "vpn_vendor" "Try a VPN deal" >}}

*Updated: 2025-09-24*